# Fascists

Source: [Facebook post 2019-05-21](https://www.facebook.com/elias.jackson2/posts/2761423727208036)

(Please read the whole thing before commenting. This is important, quite personal to me, and can't be summed up quickly.)

For years, ever since I got into politics, I was convinced that every belief or ideology, no matter how extreme, is ultimately led by good intentions from *some* of the people involved in it. That all it takes to combat dangerous beliefs is to simply educate the masses. I had sympathy for even the worst people, believing that most people have the desire (even if not the will or ability) to be open-minded, rational, and empathetic. I would argue against the people on my side who said that fascists can't be reasoned with, claiming that the (although this wasn't the term I used) "marketplace of ideas" would let the best ideas win out. While I still believe in the importance of open discussion and hearing multiple sides of issues (as long as all sides are being heavily fact-checked and evaluated for rational arguments), my recent experiences have shown me that many people do not approach politics with the goal of having correct positions, but instead to further their personal agenda. In other words, as long as these people have a vested emotional interest in whatever they are pushing, no line of reasoning will ever convince them.

Most people will read this and say, "duh". Obviously, because politics affects society, including every individual that lives within it, people naturally have personal agendas about what kind of world they want to live in. This is not inherently a bad thing. In fact, people *should* advocate for the things that they personally want. The problem comes when there are people who wish for the suffering of other human beings, and use politics as a mechanism to create this suffering. These are people who, through their speech, votes, and activism, are actively contributing to harm and injustice. They are not doing it because of some naivety about the outcomes of their actions. They know exactly what they are doing. They do not care about others, and have no remorse for the victims of the policies they advocate.

I'm not talking about the naive Trump voter who truly thought that he would bring jobs back to our country, or the casual conservative who thinks laissez-faire economics will bring down the prices of goods. I'm talking about people who want our government to be "tough" on Islam just like what's happening in China, people who harass and make fun of trans people on the internet (often driving these people to suicide), people who show no remorse for the DACA recipients who could now lose their rights, many of whom have lived here for decades and consider the US their home.

Don't be like me. Don't wait until they are blatantly and directly advocating white nationalism (their words, not mine) and you find out that your "white" side is the only part of you that they like, and the only reason they don't want you violently removed from the country or executed. Recognize their hatred, bitterness, and xenophobia for what it is, BEFORE it gets to that point. Even if it's inconvenient or uncomfortable for you to think about it. Take a long look at who you consider to be your friends, and don't be afraid to ask these difficult questions, internally and externally. Your fate, and the fate of everyone around you, quite literally depends on it.