# My current views

:::info Source

This is copied and pasted from [this Facebook post](https://www.facebook.com/elias.jackson2/posts/2761423727208036) written June 7, 2020. 

As of 2022, it still accurately describes my overall views.

:::

I want to clear the air on some of my positions regarding economic policy and my placement on the political spectrum. I had been somewhat afraid to make these statements out of fear of alienating my socialist friends (many of whom I have great respect for), fear of being wrong and having to backtrack once I learn more, and fear of making a claim that I can’t argue well at the moment. Many of you disagree with me on these, and I want to hear your perspective. Please challenge me on any of these, because I am still learning. I promise you that my heart is in the right place and I am committed to finding the most correct and fact-based positions.

I am not a socialist. I am not an anarchist. Right now, I believe that center-left (Democratic) economic policy can bring prosperity, reduce suffering, and eventually end poverty (which is a goal currently set in place by the United Nations). I’ve read multiple articles that state that material conditions around the world are consistently getting better, not worse, even with capitalism being the pervasive economic system in all of these countries. Most of the nice things that socialism offers can also be done through a combination of government programs and charity, and perhaps better so. Post-capitalism will not be achievable or desirable until we make grand technological leaps that I may not see until very late in my lifetime, at which point we may naturally transition into it (and why wouldn’t we, if it ends up being better than our system in every way?) The only socialism I might be sold on in the short-term is market socialism, which seems like a much more viable alternative to communism in current circumstances.

Despite the fact that I don’t consider capitalism an inherently oppressive system, I do believe that the existence of poverty is horribly unethical (because there are things we can do right now to stop it), and I believe that people who have lots of wealth and still allow poverty to exist by spending most of it on themselves are acting unethically. Full stop.

I also support mutual aid communities distributing food and other necessities to the masses, which I believe can co-exist with a capitalist economic system.

I do not believe that the government is inherently corrupt or incapable of acting in the public interest. This is something I’ve changed my mind on very recently. The reason that our representatives do a horrible job of representing us is two-fold. The first problem, which most people acknowledge, is the influence of corporate lobbying in politics. We need stricter legislation against that. While this may seem like a circular issue and therefore unsolvable, here's why I don't believe that's the case. If enough people decided to unite on that issue, pressure our politicians, and take that opinion with them to the polls, it would get solved. You know what that requires? VOTING. (Which is the second issue). Politicians only care about representing the people who vote for them, because that’s their incentive for re-election and a successful political career (it would be nice if they simply did the right things without us needing to be involved and use our votes as an incentive, but this is how the game is played). Voter turnout in this country is ABYSMAL, and it honestly makes me embarrassed for our country. We cannot pretend that “we’ve tried democracy/electoralism and it failed” when it’s clear from the numbers that most of you guys have in fact not tried it. Look up your ballot measures, contact your representatives, hold them accountable, and THEN you’ll have the right to complain about the “system not working”.

Even though I lean way more towards reform than revolution nowadays, I acknowledge that there is great value in critiquing the system as a whole, and having grand, optimistic visions for what the future could look like. Reform without a revolutionary vision will leave us trapped in many ways.

These are, in a nutshell, my current opinions on politics and economics. They’ve changed a lot, even in the past year, and are bound to change even more. If I had to pick a label, it would most likely be “social democrat” (capitalism/democracy with wide safety nets and welfare programs). But ultimately, my only primary goal has always been to reduce suffering in the world, and I’m interested in any political/economic system that can do that. I believe all politics stems from ethics, and I am continuously searching for the best legislative strategies that match my ethical beliefs.